Collective Influence:

Minimizar la funcion costo El(n) -> entregara los influenciadores 
El(n) = sum_i{1..N}CIl(i) / CI collective influence

Manera de minimizarla es eliminando los nodos con mayor CI (mayor CI => menor sera sum => menor energia)

Haciendo lo anterior: la red se destruye de la manera mas optima y rapida 

l tiene que ser menor al diametro sino => CI = 0 => pasara como un algoritmo de eliminacion random de nodos

Los nodos hojas dan contribucion CI = 0, se ignoran. Tienen cero influencia en la red (grado - 1)


 our optimization theory identifies a new class of strategic influencers, called weak-nodes, which outrank the hubs in the network.

 the top influencers
are highly counterintuitive:  low degree nodes play a major broker role in the network, and
despite being weakly connected, can be powerful influencers.


 the  most  influential  nodes  are  the  ones  forming  the  minimal  set
that guarantees a global connection of the network

Encontrar el set minimo de nodos que, tras removerlos, rompa la red en varias partes

La medida de la influencia es el tamaño de la componente conexa mas grande (o gigante) [The natural measure of influence is,  therefore,
the size of the largest (giant) connected component as the influencers are removed from the
network.]

Percolation theory -> si elegimos nodos random para remover => la red llegara a caer en un colapso estructural.
[
It  is  well  known  from  percolation  theory  [21]  that,  if  we  choose  these  nodes
randomly, the network undergoes a structural collapse at a certain critical fraction where
the probability of existence of the giant connected component vanishes,
G
= 0. ]

La solucion necesita que lambda <= 1 (componente gigante = 0) y el optimo se encuentra cuando lambda = 1

hubs node = nodos que tienen muchas conexiones a otros nodos en la red. Pese a tener "weak links", son considerados nodos influyentes dado la gran cantidad de conexiones que tienen con los demas nodos. NODOS CON MAYOR GRADO

A node’s spreading power is the force with which it can push
a spreading process to the rest of the network.  
More precisely,
in a susceptible-infected (SI) spreading process without recov-
ery, which inevitably reaches the entire connected component
of the network, the spreading power of the seed node predicts
the delay before half (or some other large percentage of) the
network is reached.

Recent research based on optimal percolation in random
networks has shown, however, that the degree is neither the sole nor the best predictor of influence
in complex networks. Low-degree nodes may also be optimal influencers if they are hierarchically
linked to hubs.

the concept of influence is tightly related to the concept of network integrity. 

 the most influential nodes in a complex network form the minimal set whose removal would dismantle the network in many disconnected and non-extensive components. (what is many and non-extensive (dim)?)

The measure of this fragmentation is the size of the largest cluster of nodes, called the giant component G of the network

Fn objetivo -> largest eigenvalue of the non-backtracking matrix (minimizacion)

Optimal set -> minimizing the energy of a many-body system

Remarkably, a large number of previously neglected weakly connected nodes emerges among the optimal influencers. These are topologically tagged as low-degree nodes surrounded by hierarchical coronas of hubs, and are uncovered only through the optimal collective interplay of all the influencers in the network.

The order parameter of the influence problem is the probability that i belongs to the giant component in a modified network where
j is absent.

This sum contains the contribution of the nodes living on the surface of the ball surrounding the central vertex i,
each node weighted by the factor k − 1.  This means that a node placed at the center of a corona irradiating many links— the structure hierarchically emerging at different l-levels— can have a very large collective influence.

 Such “weak-nodes” can outrank nodes with larger degree that occupy mediocre peripherical locations in the network.

one cause for the poor performance of the high-
degree rank is that most of the hubs are clustered (rich-club effect), which gives a mediocre
importance to their contacts.  As a consequence, hubs are outranked by nodes with lower
degree surrounded by coronas of hubs 

many low-degree nodes can be optimal influencers if
they are “surrounded by hierarchical coronas of hubs”n